So let's look at some commercially available laser scanners.
There are several devices available in the market and I'm going to provide an overview of the most important
ones that are used in Russia made with robots for example one popular and famous laser scanner is the
hook for you.
You are ready for an X easier to walk.
So this one is characterized by a maximum range between 0 1 and five point six meters.
So this is the maximum distance it can observe is five meters or around five meters and it has a nice
dream of you.
It can look at opening of two hundred forty degrees.
So this means an angle between minus 20 degrees and 120 degrees.
And basically this is useful in indoor applications because five meters or four meters is not sufficient
to be operational in an outdoor environment so you can see this kind of frequency still hurts.
It means is going to spend 100 millisecond Pesca.
So in one second he's going to scan ten times the range.
So this is not very high frequency for that and it operates on a low voltage and rates low current.
It's only 5 volts because the interface is used.
So you can plug it on any of us we do work.
And five words will be sufficient to power the laser scanner and it's going to generate only one in
five days.
So the price is around is a little bit more than 1000 U.S. dollars.
On the bright side you can see another also of popular laser scanner which is currently used in total
about three robots.
Get to the airport at eight two and there is also the new version A3.
OK this one that has a maximum range of six meters.
It has a little bit longer than you or easier for and it has a maximum field of view of 360 degrees
so you can observe all around its impact or it has an angle between minus 80 and 180 so you can see
the field of view here is bigger because you see this laser scanner.
It's actually we keep rotating this one doesn't rotate.
It has just a static field of view and this is going to rotate.
And for that reason it's able to view around 360 degrees.
It's used in indoor environment because of the short range.
It can also then Hertz and it operates at the same voltage 5.0 and zero point forty five compact.
It doesn't have a user interface but it has you arc interface which can be connected to a serial port
on a computer.
And the cost is much less expensive than the hooker.
It's only around 470 U.S. dollars.
These are more sophisticated and advanced laser scanners which are typically used in other environments
so we can have the six elements 151 which has a maximum range of 20 meters and the maximum few of you
of 270 degrees and basically it is used in Hauger invites.
So you can see here in this country Kwasi is even higher.
It can sample scans at 25 Hertz up to 50 hertz and for this it will require a higher voltage.
So around ten point eight God it has different interfaces not us.
It has its own interface interface and can just interface and express his you can see it's much more
expansive.
It's more than 5200 U.S. dollars so basically laser scanners with good performance.
They are very very expensive.
On the right side you have the you hook up your day in 30 and X and it has a maximum range of 30 meters
which is very long and a maximum in the view of 270.
It's used in outdoor environments but it can sample at 40 hertz which means 25 millisecond per Scott.
It operates on a voltage of 12 volt and generates 1 7 on deck.
It has asked me to interface and the price is more than 4700 U.S. dollars in addition to laser rangefinders.
Actually the cameras also are equipped with laser scanners and the cameras are known to be depth camera.
So why not call them depth camera because they have a stereo camera here which are going to provide
a two dimensional image and then the laser scanner is going to provide information about the depth.
So these cameras are able to generate depth images which are three dimensional but you can see on the
left side even for Astra as or for Intel results.
This one is actually the laser scanner.
So the characteristic of the laser scanner of these are going to be camera Astra as can look up to eight
metres and it has a maximum field of view of 60 degrees or is under 50 degrees vertical and 70 degrees
in diagonal.
It is basically used in indoor applications and the depth image size is 640 multiplied by four hundred
eighty.
A 16 bit 13 frame per second it operates on five vote and it has to use be 2 1 0 in case the cost is
around 170 U.S. dollar on the right side we have in the real sense camera of 200 which has a maximum
range of three point five meters.
It has almost the same maximum of you 60 degrees in hoodies up to 50 degrees in vertical and 70 degrees
in diagonal it's used in indoor environments it has scant frequency of what you heard operate on fibroid
and has an interface USP 3.0.
The price is similar to the Astra as another type of laser scanners.
Is the leader lead and this one is the legal version 3.
And basically this one is actually doesn't make several measurements it makes only one measurement test
which is in a different direction.
OK so it has only one laser beam and it's a compact optical distance measurements and so this one is
used in several applications especially for example in droves.
They are put on the bottom of the frame so you can estimate the attitude of the drone or the distance
to get out.
It's going to look to the ground and then it can be used to estimate the distance.
So as a mentioned it only returns one measurement values that is in the front direction and you can
see here it can reach very high rates up to 40 meters.
So it operates on 5:01 DC and it can be used in both indoor and outdoor environments.
The optical aperture is twelve point five millimeters and it has two interfaces either out to C or BW.
And it can generate that very high frequency up to 500 readings there.
And the price is around 130 U.S. dollars.
So this was an overview about the laser scanners and their main characteristics and I have also presented
an overview of the commercially available laser scanner devices infinite's videos.
I'm going to show some concrete examples of laser scanners how to connect them with rocks and how to
extract the information like for example the list of ranges the maximum angle minimum angle the maximum
distance and all the information and so on.
And as I mentioned before understanding how it works is really important and crucial to understand later
on how to navigate and how to avoid the obstacles.